# CS340

# How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

To create maintainable, readable, and adaptable code it is important to understand the purpose the code is setting out to do as well as maintaining a level of modularity. Creating code that is reusable is largely the goal with any project as this is removing work from later projects, with the potential of creating robust frameworks that could be entirely adopted by other people. Creating small functions that are singular in purpose creates code that is easier to debug and is easier to incorporate into projects. Lastly, creating comments and writing code with consistent styling is important towards having code be readable. Comments can help clarify ambigous code and maintaining styling standards makes it easier for anyone to read your code.

# How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

When approaching a problem as a computer scientist I am always looking for the most efficient solution. Since there were frameworks and tools already available to solve the problem of creating a database and deploying a website it is far easier to utilize those tools than to recreate our own for every circumstance. When approaching the requirements for projects like this and utilizing a framework that I am unfamiliar with, I perform a lot of research on the framework to learn as much as I can about it to be able to deploy the solution that the company is looking for. Utilizing the documentation provided was a huge help in solving a lot of the problems presented as this allowed me to further research the specific aspects of the framework that I believe matched the requirements rather than spending a lot of time aimlessly searching for what might be an appropriate solution.

# What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientists ultimately utilize technology to solve problems in efficient and effective ways. Creating projects like this can be incredibly important for companies and the world at large as they allow for cost savings and time savings. A project such as this one would save the time from Grazioso Salvare having to look through all of the data in a more intiment and time consuming way. This saves them time and resources which allows for those resources to be better allocated to things less tedious. Additionally, this project allows for someone non-technical to utilize the tool I created to perform the needs of the business.
